The next datatype we're going to talk about and read Berettas are called lists and lists are implemented
using something called linked lists rather than arrays.
And that's getting into a talk about data structures.
So we're not going to get too into it but the main principle is that insertion is really really fast
with lists.
So if you're adding things to the lists it's really really fast but it takes a bit of time.
Then erase when you're searching for a key.
So think of it this way.
Lists are useful if you have really long lists and you need to add elements quickly to that lists and
you want to use something like that.
Otherwise you want to use something like sorted lists and read S which is better for when you're searching
or getting they'll sell it.
So let's give it a try.
The first thing we're going to do is say I'll push that is left push.
So from left of where the head of the list is we're going to add 10 as a key or sorry I have to name
the key so I'm going to say that this is going to be let's say our list and we're going to add 10 and
let's say I also want to do a write push
and this right push is going to be again on our list.
And it's going to have let's say hello as a string and this is going to enter it from the right of the
list.
Now if I do something like get our list we see that because our list is a data type list.
We can just use our string get on rattus.
We even get a wrong type operation against a key holding the wrong kind of value.
Now the way we can actually read some of this some of these lists is if I do something like l range
and we give it our range that we want to grab the data from you see the key start and stop.
So I'm going to say I want our list and we want from let's say 0 to 1 I get 10.
And hello if Now let's say I do a left push to our list of 55 and do the range Alv range from zero to
1.
I get 55 and 10 because I only get the two values from 0 to 1 0 or 2 2.
I get the 5 55 10 and hello
you can also run commands like l trim to trim your list.
Or you can run things like our drop which is drop whatever is on the right hand side and I can just
say drop from our list or necessary instead of our drop.
It's actually our pop just like in Javascript.
So it's our list.
So now if I go to the range are list 0 2.
No there's no more hello because we pop that drop pop.
All right.
So these are lists.
Let's talk about the next attack.